README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  📝 TaxMerge: <i>1099-PDF Tax Consolidator</i> 📊
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <i>Effortlessly</i> retrieve realized gain data from multiple 1099 tax forms from different brokerages into one report.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/84d865a6-6e12-4b77-9951-03f23c647e6f?raw=true" alt="Tax Merge Banner"/>
</p>

---

## 🚀 Features & Perks  

### 🏦 Supported Brokerages  
This project automates the extraction and consolidation of **realized gain/loss data** from 1099 tax forms across multiple brokerages, including:  

- **Fidelity**  
- **Charles Schwab**  
- **Firstrade**  
- **J.P. Morgan Invest (Chase)**  
- **Robinhood**  
- **TastyTrade**  
- **Vanguard**  
- **WellsTrade**

  -  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8def144e-60ab-4cb4-aff8-50ded76b5f04" alt="Supported Stock Brokerages for 1099 Tax Consolidation" width="600">

### 📁 Consolidated Realized Gains/Losses  
Automatically extracts **taxable realized gains/losses** from multiple **1099 tax PDFs**, including multiple accounts from the same brokerage. Each brokerage's data is first consolidated into a **single CSV**, then merged into a **master summary** detailing short- and long-term realized gains across all brokerages—ensuring streamlined tax reporting.  
  - <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/80e45c76-9afb-4bd2-8023-ef07abc25ffc" alt="Example of a consolidated realized gains CSV output" width="600">

### 📊 Data Visualization  
Gain insights into your taxable earnings with **interactive charts** that break down realized gains by brokerage.  
- **Bar graphs** and **pie charts** display your earnings distribution across financial institutions.  

  - <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/85020a83-1559-478c-9c4d-755427a9b67c" alt="Taxable earnings breakdown bar graph and pie chart" width="600">

### 📜 PDF & CSV Viewer  
Enhance data verification with **built-in viewing tools**:  
- **📄 Smart PDF Navigation** – Automatically detects and opens the **most relevant page** of the 1099 form containing the **Realized Gains Summary**, based on the brokerage's format. This should allow users to easily verify everything was correctly parsed from the PDF. 
- **🖊️ Row Highlighting for CSVs** – Improve readability with **bold & highlighted** rows when double-clicking entries, making data validation effortless.  

  - <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c789c7ac-29c5-49f2-b93f-58b7b2f175c3" alt="Highlighted CSV row for easier verification" width="600">

---
## **🎥 Demo Video**
<video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d87c5c93-c09c-4c41-a1c3-a0d248784b95" controls="controls" style="max-width: 100%; height: auto;">
    Your browser does not support video tags.
    <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d87c5c93-c09c-4c41-a1c3-a0d248784b95">Click to open Video URL.</a>
</video>

---

## **📋 How to Use**  

1. **Purchase a license** – See [Pricing](#Pricing) for details.  
2. **Gain access** – After purchase, an invitation to the private repository will be sent to your **GitHub email** within **48 hours**. Accept the invite to proceed.  
3. **Download & install** – Visit the private repository and download the latest **TaxMerge** installer from the **Releases** section.  
4. **Configure & authenticate** – Follow the setup instructions in the private repository's README to complete the configuration.  

---  

## **Pricing**  

📢 **Notice of Delay**: Orders will not be fulfilled between **02/18/25 – 03/03/25** as I will be out of the country. Invites will resume on **03/04/25**.  

### **Pricing Options**  

- **💰 Discounted Quotes** – Users paying via **Zelle** can receive a **discounted invitation**. Additionally, users can customize which features/brokerages they need support for, potentially excluding unnecessary ones for further discounts. If interested, [contact me via email](mailto:premium.github@gmail.com) (**serious inquiries only**).  

- **🔑 One-Time Purchase** – Full access to all features for [$150 via GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/Prem-ium/sponsorships?tier_id=463064).  

- **🏅 Gold Sponsor Discounts** – Available for **consecutive** GitHub sponsorships:  
  - **3+ months**: [$20 off ($130)](https://github.com/sponsors/Prem-ium/sponsorships?amount=130&frequency=one-time).  
  - **6+ months**: [$50 off ($100)](https://github.com/sponsors/Prem-ium/sponsorships?amount=100&frequency=one-time).  

⚠️ **No refunds** due to the nature of the software. Ensure compatibility before purchase—this application **only supports Windows**. **Project and bug support are available.**  

---
## **🧑‍💻 Who Is This For?**

Ideal for **traders, tax professionals, and investors** managing multiple brokerage accounts who need a faster, automated way to consolidate and analyze their **1099-B tax forms**.

---
## **🎉 Why I Built This**

After the success of **[Auto-StockTrader](https://github.com/Prem-ium/Auto-StockTrader)**, I realized managing tax forms across multiple accounts and brokerages was a challenge. My accountant even recommended filing for an extension due to the large number of 1099 tax forms, a result of the primary investment strategy used by users of my Auto-StockTrader repository. Additionally, some accountants charge hefty fees—$50-75 per additional tax form. **TaxMerge** was created to tackle this issue; it aims to simplify this process, particularly in calculating the final short and long-term net realized gains/losses for a tax year.

---
## **📜 End User License Agreement (EULA)**
[View the EULA](EULA.txt).

Commit message:

chore: Adding Basic + Pro Version

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  📝 TaxMerge: <i>1099-PDF Tax Consolidator</i> 📊
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <i>Effortlessly</i> retrieve realized gain data from multiple 1099 tax forms from different brokerages into one report.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/84d865a6-6e12-4b77-9951-03f23c647e6f?raw=true" alt="Tax Merge Banner"/>
</p>

---

## 🚀 Features & Perks  

### 🏦 Supported Brokerages  
This project automates the extraction and consolidation of **realized gain/loss data** from 1099 tax forms across multiple brokerages, including:  
Basic Version:
- **Fidelity**  
- **Charles Schwab**  
- **J.P. Morgan Invest (Chase)**  
- **Vanguard**  
- **WellsTrade**

Pro Version (Includes Apex Clearing Brokerages):
- All brokerages from Basic version
- **Fennel**
- **TastyTrade**
- **Tradier**
- **Firstrade**
- **Robinhood**
- **Public**

  -  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8def144e-60ab-4cb4-aff8-50ded76b5f04" alt="Supported Stock Brokerages for 1099 Tax Consolidation" width="600">

### 📁 Consolidated Realized Gains/Losses  
Automatically extracts **taxable realized gains/losses** from multiple **1099 tax PDFs**, including multiple accounts from the same brokerage. Each brokerage's data is first consolidated into a **single CSV**, then merged into a **master summary** detailing short- and long-term realized gains across all brokerages—ensuring streamlined tax reporting.  
  - <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/80e45c76-9afb-4bd2-8023-ef07abc25ffc" alt="Example of a consolidated realized gains CSV output" width="600">

### 📊 Data Visualization  
Gain insights into your taxable earnings with **interactive charts** that break down realized gains by brokerage.  
- **Bar graphs** and **pie charts** display your earnings distribution across financial institutions.  

  - <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/85020a83-1559-478c-9c4d-755427a9b67c" alt="Taxable earnings breakdown bar graph and pie chart" width="600">

### 📜 PDF & CSV Viewer  
Enhance data verification with **built-in viewing tools**:  
- **📄 Smart PDF Navigation** – Automatically detects and opens the **most relevant page** of the 1099 form containing the **Realized Gains Summary**, based on the brokerage's format. This should allow users to easily verify everything was correctly parsed from the PDF. 
- **🖊️ Row Highlighting for CSVs** – Improve readability with **bold & highlighted** rows when double-clicking entries, making data validation effortless.  

  - <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c789c7ac-29c5-49f2-b93f-58b7b2f175c3" alt="Highlighted CSV row for easier verification" width="600">

---
## **🎥 Demo Video**
<video src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d87c5c93-c09c-4c41-a1c3-a0d248784b95" controls="controls" style="max-width: 100%; height: auto;">
    Your browser does not support video tags.
    <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d87c5c93-c09c-4c41-a1c3-a0d248784b95">Click to open Video URL.</a>
</video>

---

## **📋 How to Use**  

1. **Purchase a license** – See [Pricing](#Pricing) for details.  
2. **Gain access** – After purchase, an invitation to the private repository will be sent to your **GitHub email** within **48 hours**. Accept the invite to proceed.  
3. **Download & install** – Visit the private repository and download the latest **TaxMerge** installer from the **Releases** section.  
4. **Configure & authenticate** – Follow the setup instructions in the private repository's README to complete the configuration.  

---  

## **Pricing**  
### **Pricing Options**  

- **💰 Discounted Quotes** – Users paying via **Zelle** can receive a **discounted invitation**. Additionally, users can customize which features/brokerages they need support for, potentially excluding unnecessary ones for further discounts. If interested, [contact me via email](mailto:premium.github@gmail.com) (**serious inquiries only**).  

- **🔑 One-Time Purchase** – There are different pricing for 'Basic' and 'Pro' version of this project. The basic version ($100, [Basic Version Pricing](https://github.com/login?return_to=%2Fsponsors%2FPrem-ium%2Fsponsorships%3Ftier_id%3D466171)) supports only 'Fidelity, Chase, Vanguard, Wellstrade, Schwab'-- while the Pro version ($120, [Pro Version Pricing](https://github.com/login?return_to=%2Fsponsors%2FPrem-ium%2Fsponsorships%3Ftier_id%3D466173)) supports additional brokerages with Apex Clearing (Fennel, Robinhood, Public, Firstrade, etc.)

- **🏅 Gold Sponsor Discounts** – Available for **consecutive** GitHub sponsorships:  
  - **3+ months**: $10 off
  - **6+ months**: $40 off
    
📢 **Notice of Delay**: Orders will not be fulfilled between **02/18/25 – 03/03/25** as I will be out of the country. Invites will resume on **03/04/25**.  

⚠️ **No refunds** due to the nature of the software. Ensure compatibility before purchase—this application **only supports Windows**. **Project and bug support are available.**

---
## **🧑‍💻 Who Is This For?**

Ideal for **traders, tax professionals, and investors** managing multiple brokerage accounts who need a faster, automated way to consolidate and analyze their **1099-B tax forms**.

---
## **🎉 Why I Built This**

After the success of **[Auto-StockTrader](https://github.com/Prem-ium/Auto-StockTrader)**, I realized managing tax forms across multiple accounts and brokerages was a challenge. My accountant even recommended filing for an extension due to the large number of 1099 tax forms, a result of the primary investment strategy used by users of my Auto-StockTrader repository. Additionally, some accountants charge hefty fees—$50-75 per additional tax form. **TaxMerge** was created to tackle this issue; it aims to simplify this process, particularly in calculating the final short and long-term net realized gains/losses for a tax year.

---
## **📜 End User License Agreement (EULA)**
[View the EULA](EULA.txt).
